

--- page 1 ---
SAND2024-14167R
Xyce™ Parallel Electronic Simulator
Version 7.9 Release Notes
Sandia National Laboratories
October 17, 2024
The Xyce™ Parallel Electronic Simulator has been written to support the simulation needs of
Sandia National Laboratories’ electrical designers. Xyce™ is a SPICE-compatible simulator with
the ability to solve extremely large circuit problems on large-scale parallel computing platforms,
but also includes support for most popular parallel and serial computers.
For up-to-date information not available at the time these notes were produced, please visit the
Xyce™ web page at http://xyce.sandia.gov.
Contents
New Features and Enhancements 2
Defects Fixed in this Release 4
Supported Platforms 6
Xyce Release 7.9 Documentation 6
External User Resources 7
1

--- page 2 ---
New Features and Enhancements
Important Announcements
Xyce is now supporting Red Hat Enterprise Linux ® (RHEL) 8, x86-64 (serial and parallel). Pre-
vious releases supported RHEL 7.
New Devices and Device Model Improvements
• The BSIM-CMG model version 111.2.1 has been added to Xyce as a new MOSFET level 111.
Previous versions 107, 108 and 110 are still supported, for backward compatibility.
• The voltage limiting in the BSIMSOI version 3 device model is improved which can lead to
both robustness and performance improvements. The voltage limiting related calculations for
body nodes were incorrect which led to robustness issues when body nodes (5th or 6th node)
are used (e.g., Sandia’s CMOS PDK) and voltage limiting is activated during simulation.
Fixing voltage limiting improves both convergence and runtime performance for these circuits.
• The scaling of Gmin in the BSIMSOI version 3 device model can now be optionally turned
off which can improve circuit convergence. The Gmin used in BSIMSOI version 3 model is
scaled by 1e-6 which makes it much smaller than Gmin used in other nonlinear devices. A
small gmin value can cause circuit convergence issue.
• Many older hand-written devices now support the parameter DTEMP. This parameter refers
to a device instance temperature difference relative to the circuit temperature. This is a
compatibility enhancement. Most of the newer devices, which were generated from Verilog-
A using ADMS, already supported DTEMP. The older devices that now support it include
the resistor, capacitor, inductor, diode, levels 1,2,3,6 MOSFET, BSIM3, BSIM4, BSIMSOI
version 3, level 1 BJT, JFET and MESFET.
• User-defined netlist functions can now be specified as a special case of .PARAM. For example,
.PARAM F(X)=’X*2’ is now a valid Xyce syntax. Historically, functions in a Xyce netlist had
to be specified using the .FUNC keyword, so the example would have been specified as .FUNC
F(X) {X*2}. The parser now natively supports both specifications.
• The nonlinear voltage-controlled current source (VCCS) device now supports the multiplier
(M=) parameter. Previously, this was only supported in linear VCCS devices, as the nonlinear
VCCS device is turned into a behavioral (B-source) device internally. Like with other model
supporting the M parameter, this parameter is implicitly connected to subcircuit multipliers.
• The behavioral source model (B-source) now supports multiplier parameters, for the current
source (I=) configuration. Like with other model supporting the M parameter, this parameter
is implicitly connected to subcircuit multipliers.
Enhanced Solver Stability, Performance and Features
• The spice strategy, which is the default nonlinear solve method for DC calculations, has
been improved. Previously, if spice strategy is used in DC sweeps and one DC solve fails,
the solutions after a failed DC can be incorrect. The robustness of spice strategy in Xyce is
improved and it now solves correct results after a failed DC in DC sweeps.
2

--- page 3 ---
Interface Improvements
• The DELIMITER parameter on the .PRINT line has been expanded. It previously only supported
TAB and COMMA. Now it also supports SEMICOLON and COLON. It also will allow specifying
quoted delimiter strings, such as DELIMITER=";". Previously this parameter only applied
to the standard output format, but now it also applies to Comma-separated values (CSV)
formatted output as well. This was primarily added to address backlog issue 613 (see fixed
defects table).
3

--- page 4 ---
Defects Fixed in this Release
Table 1: Fixed Defects. The Xyce team has multiple issue trackers, and the table below indicates fixed issues
by indentifying both the tracker and the issue number. Further, some issues are reported by open
source users on GitHub and these issues may be tracked using multiple issue numbers.
Defect Description
Xyce Project Backlog/613 :
Noise comma-separated values
(CSV) output format should put
quotes around variable/column
names
Comma-separated values (CSV) output for noise had a
bug, in that the comma character was used as a separator
between variables, but for noise analysis variable names
often include commas. This has been fixed in two ways.
One is to add quotes around variable names in the CSV
noise output file header. The other is to expand the
DELIMITER parameter on the PRINT line to allow other
options, including SEMICOLON and COLON. Also, this
parameter previously applied only to STD format files. It
now also applies to CSV format files.
Xyce Project Backlog/694 :
Error in MOSFET numerical
sensitivities, when using
.option scale
When using sensitivity analysis, one aspect of the
calculation is device-level derivatives. For some device
models, analytic derivatives are available. When they are
not available, numerical device-level derivatives must be
used. This is the case with several older MOSFET
models, such as the BSIM4. The code for computing these
device-level derivatives did not handle length scalars (set
by the netlist command .option scale properly, so this
produced at best nonsense results and at worst caused
the code to exit with a fatal error. This has been fixed.
Xyce Project Backlog/729 :
Expression-based objective
functions for .SENS conflate
I(VA) with V(VA) (nodes and
devices w/ same names)
Sensitivity analysis had a bug related to the naming of
circuit variables in the objective function. If a circuit had
a voltage source and a voltage node of the same name,
the expression capability could not differentiate between
the two, and could choose the wrong one. This has been
fixed.
Xyce Project Backlog/740 :
Adjoint, output, and
user-provided breakpoints
present a scaling issue for
extremely long lists
A user can request output using .options output in the
form of a list of time points. If this list was very long
(10k+ values), then processing the list would result in a
substantial slowdown in the setup time of the simulation.
This has been fixed.
Xyce Project Backlog/767 :
Location of device model
repositories should be optional
When building Xyce from source with CMake, the
location of optional device model packages can now be
specifed as configuration parameters. The new parameter
options and their associated default values are given
below as parameter name (default value) .
Xyce ADMS MODELS DIR
(${PROJECT SOURCE DIR}/src/DeviceModelPKG/ADMS)
Xyce NEURON MODELS DIR
(${PROJECT SOURCE DIR}/src/DeviceModelPKG/NeuronModels)
Xyce NONFREE MODELS DIR
(${PROJECT SOURCE DIR}/src/DeviceModelPKG/Xyce NonFree)
Xyce RAD MODELS DIR
(${PROJECT SOURCE DIR}/src/DeviceModelPKG/SandiaModels)
4

--- page 5 ---
Table 1: Fixed Defects. Note that we have two multiple issue tracking systems for Sandia Users. SON and
SRN refer to our legacy open- and restricted-network Bugzilla system, and Gitlab refers to issues
in our gitlab repositories.
Defect Description
Xyce Project Backlog/752 :
Enable Hysteresis in Switch
Devices.
Hysteresis in the on and off behavior of voltage, current
and general expression based switches has been added to
the switch device. See the reference guide for further
details.
5

--- page 6 ---
Supported Platforms
Certified Support
The following platforms have been subject to certification testing for the Xyce version 7.9 release.
• Red Hat Enterprise Linux ® 8, x86-64 (serial and parallel)
• Microsoft Windows 11®, x86-64 (serial)
• Apple® macOS, x86-64 (serial and parallel)
Build Support
Though not certified platforms, Xyce has been known to run on the following systems.
• FreeBSD 12.X on Intel x86-64 and AMD64 architectures (serial and parallel)
• Distributions of Linux other than Red Hat Enterprise Linux 8
• Microsoft Windows under Cygwin and MinGW
Xyce Release 7.9 Documentation
The following Xyce documentation is available on the Xyce website in pdf form.
• Xyce Version 7.9 Release Notes (this document)
• Xyce Users’ Guide, Version 7.9
• Xyce Reference Guide, Version 7.9
• Xyce Mathematical Formulation
• Power Grid Modeling with Xyce
• Application Note: Coupled Simulation with the Xyce General External Interface
• Application Note: Mixed Signal Simulation with Xyce 7.2
Also included at the Xyce website as web pages are the following.
• Frequently Asked Questions
• Building Guide (instructions for building Xyce from the source code)
• Running the Xyce Regression Test Suite
• Xyce/ADMS Users’ Guide
• Tutorial: Adding a new compact model to Xyce
6

--- page 7 ---
External User Resources
• Website: http://xyce.sandia.gov
• Google Groups discussion forum:https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/xyce-users
• Email support: xyce@sandia.gov
• Address:
Electrical Models and Simulation Dept.
Sandia National Laboratories
P.O. Box 5800, M.S. 1177
Albuquerque, NM 87185-1177
Sandia National Laboratories is a multimission laboratory managed and operated by National
Technology and Engineering Solutions of Sandia, LLC, a wholly owned subsidiary of Honeywell
International, Inc., for the U.S. Department of Energy’s National Nuclear Security Administration
under contract DE-NA0003525.
7